= jekyll-epub

Create an eBook (epub) of your Jekyll blog

== How To

=== Create your blog ;)

First, you need to create your own Jekyll Blog ;) Please, refer to the {Jekyll documentation}[http://wiki.github.com/mojombo/jekyll/].

=== Configuration

Then, you must add a configuration file : <tt>_epub.yml</tt>. This file is pretty similar to the Jekyll configuration file (<tt>_config.yml</tt>) except that's you must add in some specifics entries. This entries are in the mapping <tt>epub</tt>:

<tt>_epub.yml</tt> :

  epub:
    name: "My Jekyll Blog"
    lang: en
    identifier: my_blog.example.com-123456

Note that's in the file, you can also use all the {Jekyll configuration options}[http://wiki.github.com/mojombo/jekyll/configuration]. However, it is prudent not to change the <tt>permalink</tt> option, or you may spend a lot of time to set the proper access to resources (images, CSS, ...). You have been warned;)

Here is the list of options :

* <tt>name:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : The name of your book. This is a mandatory option.
* <tt>title:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : The title of your book. This is a mandatory option.
* <tt>identifier:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : A unique identifier for your book. If you have one, you can use an ISBN. If not given, Jekyll-epub will generate an UUID for you.
* <tt>subject:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : The subject of the book.
* <tt>description:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : An abstract of your book.
* <tt>relation:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : 
* <tt>creator:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : The identity of the creator of the book. 
* <tt>contributor:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : The identity of the contributor of the book.
* <tt>publisher:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : The identity of the publisher.
* <tt>date:</tt> <tt>Date</tt> : You really want to know ;) 
* <tt>rights:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : The copyright of your book.
* <tt>type:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : The type of the book (I mean the kind)
* <tt>format:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : Some informations about the book format (The physical format)
* <tt>source:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : Information about the source of the book.
* <tt>coverage:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : Provides information on the spatial and/or time relevance of the book.
* <tt>cover-image:</tt> <tt>String</tt> : The image to use for the cover of the book (i use a 540 × 648 pixels image)
* <tt>pages-order:</tt> <tt>[page | post]</tt> : A list of pages and/or posts you want to order at the begenning of the book. If you don't specify any order, Jekyll-epub will generate the book with the posts first (from the older to the newer), then the pages.

=== Layout

If you want to use a special layout for your book, you can use the <tt>epub:</tt> mapping in the header of your pages, posts, layouts. This mapping is similar to the <tt>layout:</tt> mapping except that's it is specific for the epub generation. In this example :

  ---
  epub: my_ebook
  layout: post
  ---
  <p>This is the content of my post...</p>

When we generate the epub, Jekyll-epub will use the layout <tt>my_ebook</tt>.

=== Liquid extension

You can also use two Liquid extensions :

  {% epub %}
  ... This will only be display in the epub ...
  {% endepub %}

  {% noepub %}
  ... This will not be display in the epub ...
  {% endnoepub %}

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Gregoire Lejeune. See LICENSE for details.
